# Conceptual Exercise

##Answer the following questions below:

###What is PostgreSQL?

It is an open source database that uses SQL but organizes the databses in a more effective and efficiant way.

###What is the difference between SQL and PostgreSQL?

They are essentially the same except Postges has more to offer such as the use of foreign keys and different user defined type and functions.


###In `psql`, how do you connect to a database?
There are several methods:

- psql database
- when in postgres enter \ c database
- you can use a seed:   psql < database.sql



### What is the difference between `HAVING` and `WHERE`?
- `Where` is used for filtering data from tables and for joining two or more tables
- `Having` is used for filtering from groups.


### What is the difference between an `INNER` and `OUTER` join?
- `Outer` combines all part of the tables, this includes missing data.
- `Inner` combines mathcing data or mainly what you requested to join.

### What is the difference between a `LEFT OUTER` and `RIGHT OUTER` join?
- `Left Outer` combines the tables but uses the entire table on the left side but has filtered data on the right.
- `Right Outer` combines  the tables but uses the entire table on the right data or mainly what you requested to join.

### What is an ORM? What do they do?
Object-realtional mapping is a technique that lets you query and manipulate data from a database using an object-oriented paradigm, like the ones used in SQL.

### What are some differences between making HTTP requests using AJAX and from the server side using a library like `requests`?
Ajax fetches data from the API and fills in the page with data that is placed into a database. Server side requests takes data from a database you own. 

### What is CSRF? What is the purpose of the CSRF token?
- Cross-site request forgery which allows the hacker to take and replace input data of users.
- The CSRF token creates a random string of variables generated by the server side and sent to the client. When a request a made the server side looks for the token to validate if it is indeed the client and not an attacker.

### What is the purpose of `form.hidden_tag()`?
- It is a template argument that generates a hidden field for the CSRF token or secret key.
